the nail clipper was invented in 1896 in
the United States and soon it was at
everyone's fingertips by 1902 ads
marketed it as the Jim and it was sold
by the Dozen for $2 in US currency as an
alternative to scissors it was an idea
that just clicked more than a century
after its invention the nail clipper is
still behind many a well-groomed hand
its popularity numbers in the millions
and no manicure set would be complete
without one production begins with this
elaborate dye it's about a metre in
length and it has 12 different shaped
openings hydraulic machinery repeatedly
forces a steel sheet through the various
openings as the sheet moves forward with
each stroke the parts look more like
nail clipper jaws the clipping edge
starts out straight and blunt and
gradually becomes concave the machinery
also cuts and shapes the holes for
assembling the nail clippers
in just one minute a total of 80 strokes
generated dozen nail clipper jaws here
the Clipper jaws vibrate with abrasive
stones and organic acid for up to 20
hours this gentle polishing makes the
parts gleam but doesn't ruin the edges
and contours at the next station a
worker aligns pairs of clipper jaws for
assembly using a mechanical press he
drives the rivet into the hole at the
gripping end of the jaws he flips the
assembled Clipper jaws over inserts the
other half of the rivet and then presses
the two tightly together the rivet locks
the gripping end of the nail clippers
together so that the two jaws can't be
twisted apart next a worker smooth the
edges of the Clippers gripping end
against an abrasive wheel
this grinding evens out any
irregularities and makes the two clipper
jaws appear as one at the gripping end
attention now turns to the cutting end
of the Clippers after locking them in a
device a worker grinds the concave edges
until they match up these nail clipper
jaws are now ready for the lever but the
lever itself still needs some work using
a little press they make a hole and an
indentation between its two prongs
allowing the lever to sit more
comfortably on the Clipper levers are
then fed one at a time to a set of
drills that carve little holes into the
prongs of the fork the holes are just
big enough for a pin that's 1.3
millimeters in diameter here's the view
from the side before and after drilling
a worker now inserts a bolt in the
cutting end of the Clipper jaws this
bolt has a little hole in the end of it
he presses the jaws together and it's
now time to attach the lever he inserts
the pin in the holes in the lever and
the bolt he pinches the pin with pliers
to secure it and the lever now pivots
freely on the cutting jaws all the
pieces of the nail clipper have come
together but the assembly processes have
left oil and other residues on this tool
it's time for a cleaning in a special
tub sound waves keep the water moving to
distribute the soap and scrub them clean
once they dry a worker uses a
combination of acid and positive
electrodes to etch the company name and
item number onto the nail clipper the
next employee sounds the cutting edges
to sharpen them it takes skill and
practice to get them just right
he holds the nail clipper to a light and
scrutinizes the alignment of the jaws as
he opens and closes them this cardboard
test confirms that these nail clippers
are up to the job from a blunt clipper
on the left to a really sharp tool on
the right what a difference the sanding
has made the lever swivels for various
clipping angles and then folds down
neatly when not in use it takes 11
people to manufacture 100 of these
Clippers an hour and that means they've
been working at a very fast clip